feat: Native Image metadata for all modules part 2 (#32308)
akka/akka: akka-docs/src/main/paradox/additional/native-image.md

---
project.description: How to build native image executables with Akka
---
# Building Native Images

Building native images with Akka is supported, both for local and cluster actor system applications. 

Most built-in features in Akka can be used as is, however some functionality is not available and some extension points
require additional metadata for reflective access to work.

## Unsupported features

The following features cannot be used in native image apps:

* Lightbend Telemetry
* Aeron UDP remoting
* Testkits
* LevelDB and InMem Akka Persistence plugins
* @ref[Durable storage](../typed/distributed-data.md#durable-storage) for Akka Distributed Data

## Features requiring additional metadata

In general, any feature that allows a custom implementation provided by a third party library or user code that is
then plugged into Akka through an entry in the application config file needs to have reflection metadata explicitly added
as described in the [GraalVM docs here](https://www.graalvm.org/latest/reference-manual/native-image/metadata/).

> A few examples such classes are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples of such classes are:
```

 * Custom Serializers

>  * Custom Akka Extensions

Reviewer 2: That is only if they are loaded from config, right? Clarify?

Author: Yeah, when I think of it, the sample didn't need any extra reflection config, so the whole thing about `Feature` for extensions was wrong. If you load the extension by interacting with it, no reflection is needed. I'll amend this.

Author: Actually, let's drop if from this bullet list, there is a whole paragraph about it below.

 * Custom Mailbox Types
 * Akka Persistence plugins
 * Akka Discovery implementations
 * Akka Lease implementations

For plugins provided in libraries, metadata is preferably provided with the library so that end user applications

> does not need to provide metadata for them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
do not need to provide metadata for them.
```

### Serialization with Jackson

When using the built-in @apidoc[JsonSerializable] and @apidoc[CborSerializable] marker traits, message types are automatically added
for reflective access by Akka. 

> If instead using marker self-defined traits, the marker trait defined in `serialization-bindings` as well as each 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If marker self-defined traits are being used instead, then the marker trait defined in `serialization-bindings`, as well as each 
```

> concrete message types (lookup and constructor) needs to be added to the reflection metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
concrete message type (lookup and constructor), need to be added to the reflection metadata.
```

> Applications that define and configure @apidoc[JacksonMigration] to evolve data formats needs to list each concrete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applications that define and configure @apidoc[JacksonMigration] to evolve data formats need to list each concrete
```

migration implementation (lookup and constructor) in reflection metadata.

> Additional object mappers added through config `akka.serialization.jackson.jackson-modules` needs entries in the reflective 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional object mappers added through config `akka.serialization.jackson.jackson-modules` need entries in the reflective 
```

metadata (lookup and constructor).

### Third party serializers

Third party serializers will need reflection metadata for the serializer implementation, the types used in `serialization-bindings`
and possibly further per-message metadata depending on the specific serializer logic.

### Extensions

Classic and typed `Extension`s loaded via configuration (`akka.extensions`, `akka.actor.typed.extensions`, `akka.actor.library-extensions` or `akka.actor.typed.library-extensions`)

> needs an entry in the reflection metadata (lookup and constructor).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
need an entry in the reflection metadata (lookup and constructor).
```

### Akka Persistence Event Adapters

> Event adapters defined in an application needs to be listed in reflection metadata (lookup and constructor).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Event adapters defined in an application need to be listed in reflection metadata (lookup and constructor).
```

### Reflective classic actor construction

> Classic actors that has a @apidoc[akka.actor.Props$] defined using the @scala[type `Props[T]()` or class `Props(classOf[T], ...)`] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Classic actors that have a @apidoc[akka.actor.Props$] defined using the @scala[type `Props[T]()` or class `Props(classOf[T], ...)`] 
```

> @java[class `Props.create(T.getClass, ...)`] needs reflection entries for lookup and the constructor matching the set of passed parameters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@java[class `Props.create(T.getClass, ...)`] need reflection entries for lookup and the constructor matching the set of passed parameters. 
```

An easier path is to instead use lambda factories @scala[type `Props(new T)`]
@java[class `Props.create(T.getClass, () -> new T())`] to define props. The only reason to use the reflection based approach
is the classic remote deploy feature.

### Logging

When using `akka-slf4j` for logging, automatically used for `akka-actor-typed`, it is very likely that the concrete logger
chosen needs extra configuration.

While Akka does not mandate a logger implementation, `logback-classic` is used in many Akka samples throughout the Akka projects. 

> To make logback requires additional entries reflect entries, configuring static initalization of logback and either avoid using 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building native images with logback requires additional reflect entries, configuring static initialization of logback and either avoiding using 
```

> `ch.qos.logback.classic.AsyncAppender` or declare your own lazy version of (not starting any threads at compile time).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ch.qos.logback.classic.AsyncAppender` or declaring your own lazy version of the appender (not starting any threads at native image build time).
```

FIXME should we add link to working sample/config for logback?

> FIXME should we provide a lazy async logger appender or show it here?

Reviewer: Both sound useful.

Author: I'll follow up with these two after this massive PR is merged.

Author: Another follow up will be to link to the other umbrella project doc pages to make it easy to find everything you need to know when building something using more Akka than just core.
